#summary Details on the current release and all historic releases.

= Current Version: v1.0.3 =

This release was concerned with migrating to new build/release infrastructure. Upgrading to v3.3.0 of Solr was required as part of this and some associated changes resulted.

*Release Date:* 06 July 2011

*Release Notes:*

 * Several non-core plugins moved from trunk to 'contrib' branch.
 * Maven repository references to USQ infrastructure removed and linked to Sonatype.
 * Package names across the project altered to match Maven group IDs (using 'googlecode' domain).
 * Solr v3.3.0 version upgrade.
 * Updates to indexing and sorting is a few locations in response to Solr v3.3.0 not allowing sorting on multi-valued fields.
 * Fixed packaging bugs and improved logging on search and organiser screen.
 * Addressed some deprecated practices causing log bloat.

----
= v1.0.2 =

Aside from some minor bug fixes, this release was mostly to cover the code migration to Google Code and some related alterations to POMs.

*Release Date:* 05 May 2011

----
= Pre-migration =

There were numerous releases performed prior to our migration to Google Code. Those releases, and associated tickets are documented on USQ infrastructure (for now).

Links and a brief summary are provided below:

 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version1.0.1 v1.0.1]: 27 April 2011
   * Overhaul and improvement of OAI feeds against a variety of less common scenarios.
   * Minor bug fixes and improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version1.0.0 v1.0.0]: 14 April 2011
   * Significant optimizations to Jython Caching in Portal.
   * Implement form based workflow to ingest metadata and data together.
   * Minor bug fixes and improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.7.5 v0.7.5]: 03 March 2011
   * Most areas of the codebase migrated to the new JSON Library.
   * Upgrade jQuery to v1.4.4.
   * Minor bug fixes and improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.7.4 v0.7.4]: 07 February 2011
   * New JSON Library implemented.
   * Minor bug fixes and improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.7.3 v0.7.3]: 20 January 2011
   * The Solr indexer now uses POST instead of GET to support long queries.
   * Added HTTP byte range support to enable HTML5 video streaming .
   * Improved Storage API to enable support for retrieving the last modified date and size of payloads.
   * Additional opens for third party security integration.
   * Added sorting options for search results page.
   * Minor bug fixes and improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.7.2 v0.7.2]: 22 November 2010
   * Several minor bug fixes and improvements.
   * This release was mainly to support downstream projects.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.7.1 v0.7.1]: 11 November 2010
   * Fixed caching bug causing performance and memory issues.
   * Minor bug fixes and improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.7.0 v0.7.0]: 05 November 2010
   * New display template framework implemented.
   * Solr indexing optimized.
   * New Subscriber Plugin API added with logging implementation as first example.
   * Third party security integration now possible with trust tokens. 
   * Embedded media player switched to FlowPlayer.
   * Security model now allows exceptions for individual users.
   * A new Tapestry service added offering generic database access.
   * Numerous bug fixes and minor improvements.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.6.0 v0.6.0]: 11 August 2010
   * Optimizations to packaging and tool chains.
   * Overhaul of the branding to improve flexibility.
   * A new SSO interface and performance boost to security plugins.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.5.0 v0.5.0]: 14 May 2010
   * New security model and workflow system implemented.
   * A new transformer for handling media files implemented.
   * Integration of a new annotation library for media fragment annotation and geospatial annotation.
   * Storage API re-factored and improved.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.4.0 v0.4.0]: 28 January 2010
   * New integration with ePub, IMS and Sword.
   * Work on message queues for automated ingest.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.3.0 v0.3.0]: 19 November 2009
   * Layout of Portal altered.
   * Maven POM structures improved.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.2.0 v0.2.0]: 23 October 2009
   * Additional transformers developed.
 * [https://fascinator.usq.edu.au/trac/wiki/tf2/Version0.1.0 v0.1.0]: 25 August 2009
   * Initial development build.